---
layout: default
title: Files
subtitle: Overview of the main files generated by KLEE
slug: documentation
---

{:.toc}
Contents
{:.toc__title .no_toc}
* Table of contents placeholder
{:.toc__list .list-anchor}
{:toc}

## Standard Global Files

These are global files are always generated on a KLEE execution:

1.  **info**: This is a text file containing various information related to a KLEE run. In particular, it records the exact command-line with which KLEE was run, and the total time taken by the execution, e.g.:

    ```bash
    $ cat info
    klee --write-kqueries demo.o
    PID: 12460
    Started: 2009-05-20 22:31:41
    BEGIN searcher description
    DFSSearcher
    END searcher description
    Finished: 2009-05-20 22:31:41
    Elapsed: 00:00:00
    KLEE: done: explored paths = 3
    KLEE: done: avg. constructs per query = 6
    KLEE: done: total queries = 3
    KLEE: done: valid queries = 0
    KLEE: done: invalid queries = 3
    KLEE: done: query cex = 3
    KLEE: done: total instructions = 67
    KLEE: done: completed paths = 3
    KLEE: done: generated tests = 3
    ```

2.  **warnings.txt**: This is a text file containing all warnings emitted by KLEE.
3.  **messages.txt**: This is a text file containing all other messages emitted by KLEE.
4.  **assembly.ll**: This file contains a human readable version of the LLVM bitcode executed by KLEE
5.  **run.stats**: This is a text file containing various statistics emitted by KLEE. While this file can be inspected manually, you should use the [klee-stats]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/tools) tool for that.
6.  **run.istats**: This is a binary file containing global statistics emitted by KLEE for each line of code in the program.

## Other Global Files

1.  **all-queries.kquery:** This file contains all the queries KLEE made during execution in the [KQuery]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/kquery) format. Note these are the queries before any optimisation (e.g. caching, constraint independence) so it is possible that some of the queries logged are never executed by KLEE's underlying solver or are modified before being executed by KLEE's underlying solver. The generation of this file can be enabled by specifying the option `--use-query-log=all:kquery` to KLEE.
2.  **all-queries.smt2:** This file contains all the queries KLEE made during execution in the [SMT-LIBv2](http://www.smtlib.org) .It contains the same information as all-queries.kquery. The generation of this file can be enabled by specifying the option `--use-query-log=all:smt2` to KLEE.
3.  **solver-queries.kquery:** This file contains all the queries passed to KLEE's underlying solver during execution in the [KQuery]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/kquery) format. Note these are the queries after all optimisations (e.g. caching, constraint independence) are performed. The generation of this file can be enabled by specifying the option `--use-query-log=solver:kquery` to KLEE.
4.  **solver-queries.smt2:** This file contains all the queries passed to KLEE's underlying solver during execution in the [SMT-LIBv2](http://www.smtlib.org) format. It contains the same information as `solver-queries.kquery`. The generation of this file can be enabled by specifying the option `--use-query-log=solver:smt2` to KLEE.

## Per-path files

1.  **test\<N\>.ktest:** Contains the test case generated by KLEE on that path. Use [ktest-tool]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/tools) to read the contents. The generation of `.ktest` files can be disabled using the `--no-output` option.
2.  **test\<N\>.\<error-type\>.err:** Generated for paths where KLEE found an error. Contains information about the error in textual form.
3.  **test\<N\>.kquery:** Contains the constraints associated with the given path, in [KQuery]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/kquery) format. The generation of these files can be enabled via the `--write-kqueries` flag.
4.  **test\<N\>.cvc:** Contains the constraints associated with the given path, in [CVC](http://stp.github.io/cvc-input-language/) format. The generation of these files can be enabled via the `--write-cvcs` flag. (This is the same information as in the corresponding `.kquery` file.)
5.  **test\<N\>.smt2:** Contains the constraints associated with the given path, in [SMT-LIBv2](http://www.smtlib.org/) format. The generation of these files can be enabled via the `--write-smt2s` flag. (This is the same information as in the corresponding `.kquery` file.)
