---
layout: default
title: Documentation
subtitle: Learn How to Use KLEE
slug: documentation
---

{% include version_warning.md %}

---

### If you have a question on using KLEE:
1. Please first check the documentation below
1. Then check the [searchable mailing list archive](http://www.mail-archive.com/klee-dev@imperial.ac.uk/)
1. If this still doesn't answer your questions then:
   * If you think it is a bug, please open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/klee/klee/issues)
   * If it is a general question, then please send an email to the [klee-dev mailing list]({{site.baseurl}}/klee-dev/)

---


1. [Using KLEE Docker image]({{site.baseurl}}/docker/): Instructions on how to use the KLEE Docker image.
1. [Building KLEE (LLVM 3.4)]({{site.baseurl}}/build-llvm34/): Instructions on how to build KLEE from source using LLVM 3.4 and CMake.
1. [Building KLEE (LLVM 3.8 - experimental)]({{site.baseurl}}/build-llvm38/): Instructions on how to build KLEE from source using LLVM 3.4 and CMake.
1. [Building STP]({{site.baseurl}}/build-stp/): Instructions on how to build STP, KLEE's default constraint solver.
1. [Solver Chain]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/solver-chain/): Overview of the solver chain and related command line arguments.
1. [KLEE Options]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/options/): Overview of KLEE's main command-line options.
1. [Kleaver Options]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/kleaver-options/): Overview of Kleaver's main command-line options.
1. [Intrinsics]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/intrinsics/): Overview of the main KLEE intrinsic functions.
1. [Files]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/files/): Overview of the main files generated by KLEE.
1. [Tools]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/tools/): Overview of the main auxiliary tools provided by KLEE.
1. [KQuery]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/kquery): The reference manual for the KQuery language, used for interacting with the KLEE solver (kleaver).
1. [Coreutils Experiments]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/coreutils-experiments): Some information about the Coreutils experiments presented in our [KLEE OSDI'08 paper](http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~cristic/papers/klee-osdi-08.pdf).
1. [Developer's Guide]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/developers-guide/): A brief guide on working with the KLEE source code.
